Here we have the same two link robot as we
just looked at but this time we're going to
solve it using an analytical approach, that
is we're going to rely much more on algebra,
particular linear algebra rather than geometry.
We have an expression E, which is the homogeneous
transformation which represents the pose of
the robots endefector and we looked at this
in the last lecture, we can write the endefector
pose as a sequence of elementary homogeneous
transformations. A rotation by Q1, a translation
along the X direction by A1, a rotation by
Q2 and then a translation in the X direction
by A2. If I expand this out, multiply all
the transformations together, I get the expression
shown here; a three by three homogeneous transformation
matrix representing the pose of the robot's
endefector.
Now for this particular two link robot, we
are only interested in the position of its
endefector, it's X and Y co-ordinate and they
are these two elements within the homogeneous
transformation matrix, so I'm going to copy
those out. So here again is our expression
for X and Y and what we're going to do is
a fairly common trick, we're going to square
and add these two equations and I get a relationship
that looks like this. Now I can solve for
the joint angle Q2 in terms of the endefector
pose X and Y and the robot's constants A1 and A2.
Now what I'm going to do is apply the sum
of angles identity. I'm going to expand these
terms, sine of Q1 plus Q2 or cos of Q1 plus
Q2 and to make life a little bit easier, I'm
going to make some substations, so where ever
I had cos Q2, I'm going to write C2 and where
ever I had sine Q2, I’m going to write S2.
It's a fairly common shorthand when people
are looking at robot kinematic equations.
And here are the equations after making those
substitutions. Looking at these two equations,
I can see that they fall into a very well
known form and for that form there is a very
well known solution. So I'm going to consider
just one of the equations, the equation for
Y and using our well known identity and it's
solution, I can determine the values for the
variables little a, little b and little c
and once I've determined those, then I can
just write down the solution for Q1, which
is the equivalent of theta in this particular
case.
Here again is our expression for Q1, copied
over from the previous slide and we may remember
from earlier in our workings that we determined
this particular relationship; X squared plus
Y squared is equal to this particular complex
expression. So I can substitute that in and
do some simplification and I end up with this
slightly less complex expression for Q1. And
it is the same expression that I got following
the geometric approach in the previous section.